Editing Files
Linux, like other operating systems, allows file editing for numerous purposes, whether you need to configure some system functionality or writing scripts.
There’s a variety of text editors available in Linux by default, these include: nano, vi/vim, emacs, and gedit.
Each of these has its own learning curve and set of commands.

For instance, nano is a basic text editor, which is easy to use and perfect for simple text file editing.
Vi/vim, on the other hand, is more advanced and offers a wide range of features and commands.


Using Nano Editor
Nano is a beginner-friendly and user-friendly text editor available in most Linux distributions. It offers a simple interface with easy controls, making it an excellent choice for those new to command-line editing. To edit a file using Nano, open a terminal and type the following command,

nano filename

Let us example of some basic properties of the nano editor,

Navigation can be done through the keyboard with the arrow keys.

You can also use the Page Up(PgUp) and Page Down(PgDn) keys to scroll through the document quickly.

To start editing the content of the file, move the cursor to the desired location.
Simply start typing, and the text will be inserted at the cursor position.
To copy a block of text, move the cursor to the starting position of the block and press Ctrl + ^.
Then, navigate to the end of the block using the arrow keys. Press Alt + 6 to copy the selected text.
To paste the copied text, move the cursor to the desired location and press Ctrl + U.

Nano allows you to search for specific words or phrases within a file. To search for a term, press Ctrl + W and enter the search term. Nano will highlight the first occurrence of the term. To find the next occurrence, press Ctrl + W again.
To replace a term through the file, press Ctrl + , and enter the search term, followed by the replacement term. Then press Enter to perform the replacement.
To save the changes made to the file, press Ctrl + O. Nano will prompt you to confirm the file name. Press Enter to save the changes and overwrite the existing file. If you wish to save the changes with a different file name, type the new name before pressing Enter.
To exit Nano after saving changes, press Ctrl + X. If there are unsaved changes, Nano will prompt you to save them before exiting. Press Y to confirm and save the changes, or N to exit without saving.
Nano provides an interactive help system that can guide you through its features. Press the Ctrl + G shortcut to access the help menu.

Using VI Editor
VI is a powerful and widely used text editor in the Linux community. While it is much harder to learn compared to Nano, mastering VI can greatly enhance your editing capabilities. To edit a file with VI, open a terminal and type the following command,

vi filename

To switch to insert mode and start editing, press the i key.
In this mode, you can use the arrow keys to navigate through the file.
To save changes and exit, follow these steps,
Press the Esc key to return to command mode.
Type :wq (write and quit), and hit Enter.
To save the changes made to the file, press the Esc key followed by the :w and press Enter.
This command saves the changes without exiting VI. To just exit without saving use the :q option.
To copy text, position the cursor at the starting location of the text and press yy to copy the current line
or yw to copy a word.
To paste the copied text, move the cursor to the desired location and press p to paste the text after the
cursor or P to paste the text before the cursor.
VI provides powerful search feature. Follow these steps,
Go to command mode by pressing Esc.
Press the / key followed by the search term, and VI will find the first occurrence of the term.
Press the n to find the next occurrence.
To replace a term, use the following command, go to command mode, and type in the following syntax with
your values for the search_term and replace_term,
:%s/search_term/replace_term/g